First draft for initial observation of gas-less feature (#117)
godwokenrises/godwoken-doc: docs/gaslessFeature.md

---
id: gasless-feature
title: Gasless Feature
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";

> The gas fee is preventing new users step into the web3 world. Users must learn to get the native token (CKB or ETH) before playing a blockchain game or exchanging tokens with a DEX. The gasless feature can provide a way for developers to sponsor transaction fees for users to give them a smooth experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gas fees prevent new users from entering the Web3 world everyday. This forces new users to acquire the native token (CKB or ETH) before participating in blockchain games or exchanging tokens on a DEX, which can be challenging. The gasless feature enables developers to sponsor transaction fees for users to ensure a smooth user experience.
```

The gas feature is based on the [ERC-4337 solution](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337) but way simpler. To use a such feature, users sign and send a special gasless transaction to call a specific smart contract named `Entrypoint`, then `Entrypoint` will call another smart contract named `Paymaster` deployed by developers to check if they are willing to pay the gas fee for this transaction. The special gasless transaction must satisfy the requirements:

- `tx.data` must be the call data of calling `Entrypoint`'s `handleOp(UserOperation calldata op)` function, which contains the target contract and the paymaster address.
- Must set `tx.gasPrice` to 0 (compatible with Metamask api)
- The `tx.to` must be set to the `Entrypoint` contract.
- `tx.gas` is equals to `op.callGasLimit + op.verificationGasLimit * 3`.

### Use cases

> Each solving some decentralized problem. WIth gasless feature some of dapps could be improved with solutions like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each solving some decentralized problem. With this gasless feature, some of these dapps can be improved with solutions like:
```

>  - DEX/Lending and rest transaction gas payments with project token (descreasing project inflation);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - DEX/Lending and rest transaction gas payments with project token (decreasing project inflation);
```

>  - NFT minting and exchange (to lower the entry threshold for the crypto gaming);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - NFT minting and exchange (to lower the entry threshold for crypto gaming);
```

> ### How to use gasless transaction for your dapp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to use gasless transactions for your dapp
```

> Let's say we have the entrypoint contract `ENTRYPOINT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` and as a game developer, we want to pay the gas fee for some whitelist users, so we wrote a paymaster contract just like [this one](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/gw-gasless/contracts/samples/GaslessDemoPaymaster.sol) as `PAYMASTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we have the entrypoint contract `ENTRYPOINT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` and as a game developer, we want to pay the gas fee for some whitelist users, so we'll write a paymaster contract just like [this one](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/gw-gasless/contracts/samples/GaslessDemoPaymaster.sol) as `PAYMASTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`.
```

          verificationGasLimit: gasToVerifyPaymaster,
          maxFeePerGas: gasPrice,
          maxPriorityFeePerGas: gasPrice,
          paymasterAndData: PAYMASTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS 
      }
      
      // 1. construct and send gasless transaction via native sendTransaction
      const abiCoder = new ethers.utils.AbiCoder();
      const userOp = abiCoder.encode(["tuple(address callContract, bytes callData, uint256 callGasLimit, uint256 verificationGasLimit, uint256 maxFeePerGas, uint256 maxPriorityFeePerGas, bytes paymasterAndData) UserOperation"], [userOp]);
      // first 4 bytes of keccak hash of handleOp((address,bytes,uint256,uint256,uint256,uint256,bytes))
      const fnSelector = "fb4350d8";
      // gasless payload = ENTRYPOINT_HANDLE_OP_SELECTOR + abiEncode(UserOperation)
      const payload = "0x" + fnSelector + userOp.slice(2);
      const gaslessTx = {
        from: whitelistUser.address,
        to: ENTRYPOINT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS,
        data: payload,
        gasPrice: 0,
        gasLimit: 1000000,
        value: 0,
      }
      const signer = new ethers.Wallet("private key");
      const tx = await signer.sendTransaction(gaslessTx);
      await tx.wait();

>       // 2. or just use ethers contract factory with EntryFactory and call directly it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // 2. or just use ethers contract factory with EntryFactory and call it directly
```

      {
        // Send tx with a valid user.
        const EntryPoint = await ethers.getContractFactory("EntryPoint");
        const entrypoint = await EntryPoint.attach(ENTRYPOINT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS);
        const tx = await entryPoint.connect(whitelistUser).handleOp(userOp, {gasLimit: 100000, gasPrice: 0});
        await tx.wait();
      }
```

### How to configure a paymaster contract

> From previous example we have deployed contract like [this one](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/gw-gasless/contracts/samples/GaslessDemoPaymaster.sol). However this contract should be configurable in order to make it workable through web3 api. In order to do this, please execute the following smart contract methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the previous example we have deployed a contract like [this one](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/gw-gasless/contracts/samples/GaslessDemoPaymaster.sol). However, this contract should be configurable to work through the web3 API. To do this, please execute the following smart contract methods:
```

> 1. Execute `deposit` [method](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/541f7cac9d83e75d152e7a58bec6d97b51221012/contracts/core/GaslessBasePaymaster.sol#L68) on `paymaster` in order to add balance. This is required as all gasless tx costs will be covered by these balance on `paymaster` contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Execute `deposit` [method](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/541f7cac9d83e75d152e7a58bec6d97b51221012/contracts/core/GaslessBasePaymaster.sol#L68) on `paymaster` in order to add a balance. This is required as all gasless tx costs will be covered by the balance on the `paymaster` contract.
```

> 2. Execute `addStake` [method](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/541f7cac9d83e75d152e7a58bec6d97b51221012/contracts/core/GaslessBasePaymaster.sol#L85) in order to register your `paymaster` on the `entrypoint`. This will add `paymaster` contract allowance to perform as `gasless provider` for you project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Execute `addStake` [method](https://github.com/godwokenrises/account-abstraction/blob/541f7cac9d83e75d152e7a58bec6d97b51221012/contracts/core/GaslessBasePaymaster.sol#L85) in order to register your `paymaster` on the `entrypoint`. This will add `paymaster` contract allowance to perform as a `gasless provider` for your project.
```

### Project sample

> https://gasless-nft-ui.pages.dev/ - first test NFT minting dapp in a gasless way with payment in test tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://gasless-nft-ui.pages.dev/ - first test the NFT minting dapp in a gasless way with payment in test tokens
```
